So let's go ahead and
give insertion sort of shot,
you're gonna hear edit on code sandbox.
We're gonna pop over to Insertion-sort.
Can you ignore that part?
So you'll have the test.skip here again,
make sure you delete that and
write your code.
And your code is gonna go
here into insertion sort, and
yeah, go ahead and get started.
So we're gonna pop into here,
this is InsertionSort.test.js.
And we're gonna have two for loops here.
We have an outer one that's
gonna loop over the array,
starting with the first
element in the array, right?
Cuz the zeroeth element will be
the sorted part of the array.
[COUGH] And then we're gonna go
inner loop that's going to go over
backwards to find out where it should go.
So we're gonna say for, let i = 1,
i is less than nums.length, i++.
And I'm gonna turn this off autorun,
soft tab, okay?
Then I will say let numberToInsert,
so this gonna be like
the number that we're gonna be comparing,
= numbs(i).
Then we're gonna say let j,
cuz we're gonna keep track
of that number as well.
Here, we're gonna say for let j= or
let's put just j, j = i- 1,
nums(j) is greater than numberToInsert and
j is greater than or equal to 0.
And then at the end of every loop,
we're gonna do j- -.
Now again, there are multiple
ways you can totally write this,
this is just the way
that I chose to do it.
But here we're starting
with j being 1 below
the number that we're trying to insert.
And then we're asking,
is the number at that point,
is that greater than number to insert?
And is it greater than 0?
And if not, then we're gonna just
move the number to the side, right?
So we're gonna say nums(j + 1),
Is gonna be equal to nums j,
so this is actually moving
the numbers backwards in the array.
As soon as that's true,
then we've arrived at the point that
the number is ready to be inserted.
So we're gonna say nums(j
+ 1) = numberToInsert.
And again, if you arrive on the number
where it's already in its correct place,
this is just going to assign a number
to itself, which is totally fine,
no problems whatsoever.
And then at the bottom,
we just say return nums.
That's it.
So the outer loop which is going forward
from assuming everything behind it,
everything underneath i is going to
be the sorted part of the array.
And then we're gonna have j, which is
going to work backwards through the sort
of part of the array to
us insert the next thing.
So in theory, we should be able to
put remove test.skip down there and
run our tests.
And hopefully, if we get into insertion
sort, it looks like we are passing there.
Pretty cool.
So let's just go visualize that for
funsies.
Insert that,
we're gonna pop over to sort here.
And where are we gonna snapshot?
We wanna snapshot, Probably every
time at the end of this, right?
Now this isn't truly ten
comparisons going on.
But you can kinda see here that you
have here at the beginning of this,
we can also snapshot beginning as well,
just so we can see where we start.
Snapshot numbs, So
you can see here this three right now
represents kind of the sorted part list.
2 gets inserted before
the 0 at the beginning, and
then A gets inserted the right place,
then 5, right?
And so you can kind of see that insertion
going on until eventually down here,
we end up with something that's sorted.
Or we can do this for 50 or something like
that to see something a little bigger.
But you can kind of see this blue
demarcate the sorted part of the list
from the unsorted part, right?
So everything before this 49 right here in
this particular row, that's all sorted,
3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 16, and then everything
after that is the unsorted part.
Pretty cool, right?
And then down here at the bottom, you can
see we end up with a fully sorted list.
The idea is that you
are moving numbers forward
in the array, so 40 gets moved to 8.
Let's just make this bigger and
let's make it smaller.
So here,
let's look at this line down here, the 0,
3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, right?
So, we have 2's that's gonna be
the next number inserted into
the unsorted part of the array.
Everything 9 to 0 here, this is sorted.
What it's gonna do on these iterations,
in fact, let's just visualize that,
I think this would work.
We just say this is gonna
get a lot bigger but
snapshot(nums).
So you can kind of see here now we start
having these redundant numbers, right,
like 8 here.
It's moving piece by piece the array
forward until eventually we create
the correct space.
The down here after this for loop,
kind of get rid of this, and
move this over a little bit.
So that this is moving everything
forward 1, right, so 8 moves to here,
then it moves to here,
then here, then here, right?
Until eventually, we arrive to this
part of the code right here, line 18,
which is actually just going to insert
that number into the exact correct place.
Does that make sense?
So that's the actual part of the code
that's moving numbers forward until you
create the space where we're
going to insert our new number.
Hopefully, that makes sense.
It's kind of abstract.
It's better if I put it here.
Yeah, again, you can see these numbers
kind of where they're duplicated and
they're moving, right?
So here, we've moved 5, 4, the number
we're trying to insert right now is what?
9?
Or something like that?
We've kind of pulled that
number out of the array and
we're waiting to insert that.
That number is being held
here in number to insert and
it's actually not being
reflected in the array.
That's why you see the duplication,
until eventually we rereinserts
that number here on line 18.
Cool.
I feel good about that explanation.
[LAUGH]